either Dondre president a boy he
incorporated here our experimental space
in round lake beach Illinois behind me
is our experimental environmental
exposure serves two purposes were
experimenting with traditional building
forms and and modern building materials
as well as with alternative carbonless
renewable heating sources this building
is modeled after a yurt the Tibetan and
Mongolian circular rawlings from which
we I think we did the Hogan's of the
Navajo and in Arizona and the Mexico but
as a circular building the space inside
as you see in a little bit is actually
quite welcoming there's good flow in
there also it gives us a wonderful
environmental enclosure to experiment
with heating and we'll see that in a
minute this is our first day with
snowfall so we are under our first snow
loads we're going to measure how deep
the snow is on
we were looking at about two two and
three-quarter inches
I'd see two and three-quarters of inches
of snow fell overnight and surprisingly
it's tough but it's very heavy sticky
snow it even stuck to the solar panels
we have out there this is just a small
set that we initially started with we
found we needed more juice or we're
building that on Tuesday we'll come on
inside Lena this is the this is the
inside of what we've affectionately
named ash avenue Shack Sheva do is just
one of those words we made up around
here but we don't know something's so
nifty we don't have a word for you see
up the typical yurt center hole we have
a the top up there that manufactured
from very commonly available materials
some wood and actually those pieces up
there are our basement basement window
covering units that have been shelved
together with that wooden center as you
see our tracking materials are
temperature tracking we have an indoor
and outdoor temperature and so far we've
been able to keep this building with
very little heating at all at least 20
degrees above the ambient temperature
it's been really it's really warm and
comfortable in this space right now we
are setting the baseline for heating
we're using an oil heater that is at its
lowest setting usually actually right
now it's at the middle setting and 900
watts and it is
change the space so we know what kind of
energy we need to keep this space and
then we will design a miniaturized
renewable system to fit this is our
boost heater when we wanted to be on
cold days to spend down to like 17
degrees so we've had an internal
temperature that was about 40 we wanted
to see how quickly we could get it back
up to a livable temperature about 65
degrees which we which is our target
temperature for other place over here we
have our telltale bottle of water should
we end up with a freeze overnight and
then it'll drown out any kind of
temperature died and that's it showing
you around the place but it is a very
nice warm space but when you're
accustomed to being outside it can be
actually quite one